text=Okay, so I didn't mean it that time. But that's because I forgot about something that happened earlier: In 1641, mathematician Blaise Pascal, obviously upset at being in Renes Descartes' shadow all the time, attempted to invent something new and unusual that no one had ever thought of before. So he studied things like differential calculus and probability theory, eventually coming up with the Pascaline, a calculating machine which didn't make noise, unless you consider the clickity-clackingness of its adding algorithm to be music which, if you ask the musique concrete guys, might very well be. It was, by all accounts, the earliest (albeit crude) known example of digital logic (though it wasn't digital. More like analog logic). The forerunner to computers, and thusly, electronic circuits and instruments.
Pascal would then use this knowledge to go on and create the Pascal programming language, but his idea fizzled out at the starting gate because there were no computers around for him to demonstrate it on. There weren't even any wall sockets for him to plug a computer in even if he had one. Though I suppose he could cruft together some hacks using a whiteboard and a sharpie, but those didn't exist either. And it's not really fun writing programs on paper. Man, was he ever ahead of his time. Just goes to show that timing is everything. War geeks always talk about how cool it would be to take a modern army back to Ancient Rome and see how they'd kick ass in a battle with the infamous legions of Scipio, but what would you do once you ran out of bullets and gasoline? The only supplies a phalanx needs is food. Without the infrastructure necessary for advancement, upgrading and upkeep, nothing modern would be of very use to past civilizations, despite what time travel movies suggest.
So there you have it. 1641. The very first time anyone had even conceived of the concept of electronic music. Without having to delve very far into electronics or music. There is no possible way anything could predate this.
--