text=So where did it all begin? How did it all start? Who was the first guy who said "Holy shit, this buzzing, spitting, throbbing, pulsing din of an inane sequence of noises that might arguably call itself music sounds totally awesome on ecstasy!" And what made him do that?
But maybe I'm getting ahead of myself. To try and pinpoint the exact origins of electronic music, you first have to look at how it's made. Because as amazing as it sounds, electronic instruments did not always exist. The vast majority of them are barely more than 20 years old. And it's not like you can just pick up a sampler, synth and drum machine and jam away. Unlike conventional music, electronic music isn't played, per se. It is PROGRAMMED. So any study of the history of electronic music is really a study of its programmers--that is, the people who make the machines that make the sounds that make the music what it is. Without some guy tinkering with diodes and transistors, electronic music is just a fancy, lifeless hunk of junk. Just sitting there. Not doing anything.
Because of this, more than any other music medium, electronic music thrives on technology to make it what it is. And moreover, to make it better and different than what it was. Other instruments have remained largely unchanged since their original design centuries ago, but electronic music is constantly evolving and changing its sound with the application of technology. A new oscillation, patch or filter could take it in an entirely new direction. It is the one form of music where the equipment manufacturers have probably a greater control over the final musical output than the artists. Acid wasn't invented by a musician, it was invented by Tadao Kikumoto, creator of the Roland TB-303 Bassline. Without the 303, there is no acid. Without Kikumoto's fucked up design schematic, there is no 303. Up until recently, electronic musicians were practically at the mercy of the designers who programmed the sounds into the machines. In a way, the instruments don't make the music, the instruments ARE the music. It's a very Macluhanesque way of looking at things, I know, but trust me: It all makes sense.
So what was the first technological apparatus that kicked things off, then? Well, to answer that question, we have to go all the way back to.....
--